---
layout: post
title:  "Web Resume"
date:   2019-11-26
background: '/static/posts/michael-resume.jpg'
author: "Theodore Chiu"
---

## Résumés
Everybody wants to have a great resume. It's what gets you hired, it's what gets you a raise, and in 
a sense, it can make or break a career. Now when it comes to resumes, there's two main things to
worry about. First the content, and second the presentation. No doubt I believe that everyone
should work and study hard and do their best to get the best career related experiences in order
to better their skillsets, but I believe that very often recruiters and managers get turned off
not by the content, but by the presentation.

Just like the website you want to close out of, most resume's are densely packed, difficult to read,
small lettered documents that you just want to put down and stop reading. My solution is a _dynamic
site_ that has _amazing_ UI with <mark style="background-color:yellow !important;">bright colors</mark> complementing a dark background. 

## It's dynamic
If you're like me, your resume's constantly changing. From new experiences to new skills, my 
resume is always growing and I try my best to keep it up to date. Unfortunately given that the 
websites are written in html updating that could cause a lot of trouble.

A fun workaround I created was to use jekyll's liquid templating engine to create variables
in a `config.yml`. With this setup, anytime I want to update my resume I can simply change
the variables, run the engine, and the html updates! Even the spacing and sizing is built in,
so adding a lot of text in one section won't cause overlap or crowding of any kind.

This also means that others can clone the repository and change all the variables
to make it their own. The true halmark of open source web design! For comedic effect
I even made a fake version of the website featuring 
[Michael Scott](https://theochiu.github.io/resume-site/michael/) from the hit TV show,
"The Office". 

[source code for resume-site](http://github.com/theochiu/resume-site)
