---
layout: post
title:  "Design and websites"
date:   2019-11-24
background: '/static/posts/design.jpg'
author: "Theodore Chiu"
---

## Remarks about design
Everyone loves good design. Websites are no exception. We've all been to those sites that just look
bad, or straight up don't work. Websites where the mobile version is __identical__ to the desktop
version, except the pictures are way too big and the font is way to small. Then there are the websites
that just look bad, the one's with the jarring colors, uncomfortable navbars, the ugly ones that just
make you want to give up on the internet. 

Fortunately though, there are also the really really pretty ones, [Apple](https://apple.com) never ceases
to amaze. The font is always the right style and size. Scrolling down has cool effects, not to mention
the same effects work on mobile too! These sites restore our faith in developers and remind us
that not all engineers have a terrible eye for design.

## The new web
With html 5 standards and cool new libraries like jQuery. Responsive design is becoming standard across
the web. Things like hover animations are becoming more and more mainstream (this was not the case even
5 years ago). And with the popularity of mobile devices, mobile browsing is becoming more and more
common. However, this means that whatever responsive design developers create for desktop, there is some
expectation that something comperable is also in mobile. 

Fortunately, there are many libraries that do these now so there's really no reason to reinvent the
wheel. And even for the nontechnical people there are website templates you can purchase. If you're
a little more DIY you can search the internet for free code to learn how others created their sites.
The source code for this site is [available](https://github.com/theochiu/theochiu.github.io) to all.


